$Id: INSTALL,v 1.5.2.1 2003/07/30 00:39:37 CelloG Exp $

phpDocumentor Installation instructions
---------------------------------------

phpDocumentor is very easy to install.  The hardest part is installing PHP
and possibly a Web Server, if you plan to use the web interface phpdoc.php

To install phpDocumentor, use a compression program to decompress the
contents to a directory, preserving internal directory structure of the
archive.  If you wish to use the web interface, you must unzip the
archive into a subdirectory accessible by the web server.

PEAR installation
-----------------
This is by far the easiest way to install phpDocumentor.  Included in this
release is a package.xml file.  Simply run

pear install /path/to/phpDocumentor-1.2.2/package.xml

on Windows:

pear install C:\path\to\phpDocumentor-1.2.2\package.xml

If you have an existing install, pear uninstall PhpDocumentor first.

PhpDocumentor contains a new filerole, publicweb, that requires the latest
version of the pear package, so be sure to pear upgrade PEAR before
attmempting to install

To use the web interface, browse to <publicwebdir>\PhpDocumentor\index.html

Command-line interface installation and usage instructions
----------------------------------------------------------
To use phpDocumentor as a command-line interface, you need to install PHP
version 4.1.0 or greater.

*IMPORTANT* any version of PHP below 4.1.0 will not work with version 1.2.0 of
phpDocumentor!!!  To use the new tokenizer-based parser, you must have php 4.3.0

Windows
-------
You need the cli version of PHP (php-cli.exe or cli/php.exe in 4.3.0).
Either run phpDocumentor from the directory that PHP resides in, or put
php.exe in your DOS PATH enviroment variable.  The simplest usage of phpDocumentor is:

C:\>php.exe "C:\Path\To\phpdoc" -t targetdir -o HTML:default:default -d parsedir

where targetdir is the directory you wish phpDocumentor to create output,
and parsedir is the directory you wish to parse.

Unix
----
Make sure that the cgi version of PHP is in your path.  The simplest usage
of phpDocumentor is:

phpdoc -t targetdir -o HTML:default:default -d parsedir

You can use makedoc.sh. Simple copy it to your project path and edit it.
When you wish to (re)build your project's documentation, simple run it.


Web interface installation and usage instructions
-------------------------------------------------
To use phpDocumentor as a web interface, you need to install a Web server
and configure it, as well as install PHP version 4.1.0 or greater.  Consult
the documentation of your webserver and of PHP for installation support.

Windows and Unix
----------------
open a web browser and browse to phpdoc.php at the location that you set up.
Instructions are in the web interface.

vim: set expandtab :
